= php5-redis

Yet another PHP client class for Redis.

This one is (almost) a no-brainer. It takes commands, sends them to Redis using
the multibulk protocol, reads the reply and returns it back. Sometimes the
return will be particularly formatted (ie. bools or hashes), and some commands
may have particular attributes (eg: +mget+ or +sort+).

== Features

It's currently compatible with Redis 1.2.x and supports most Redis 1.3.x
features like hashes, zrank, publish/subscribe, multi/exec, etc.

You wait for messages with the +listen()+ method, after subscribing. Since
+listen+ will block the execution of the PHP script, you might not be
able to send other +subscribe+ or +unsubscribe+ calls, though.

Examples:

 $r = new Redis\Client();
 
 $r->set('mykey', 'foobar');  # => 'OK'
 $r->get('mykey');            # => 'foobar'
 $r->setnx('mykey', 'foo');   # => false
 $r->getset('mykey', 'foo');  # => 'foobar'
 
 $r->incr('counter');         # => 1
 $r->incrby('counter', 3);    # => 4
 $r->decr('counter');         # => 3
 
 $r->del('counter');          # => 1
 $r->get('counter');          # => null

Please note that some commands may not work when called in a pipeline
(eg. +sort+).

== Clusters

I'm not sure this <tt>Redis\Cluster</tt> class is a good idea, since an
official (and thus far better) +redis-cluster+ shall appear some time after
Redis 2.0 is out.

Anyway, clusters are supported through the <tt>Redis\Cluster</tt> class, which
is a drop-in replacement for the <tt>Redis\Client</tt> class, except for a few
limitations:

- <tt>pipeline()</tt> doesn't support +MGET+ and +MSETNX+, because it's too
  complicated to handle replies correctly.
- +MSETNX+ is supported but requires that all the keys are on a single server,
  since you can't ensure that all the keys -or none- are set when keys are
  sharded between servers.
- +SORT+ as the same problem: all the involved keys must be on a single server.
- +MULTI/EXEC+ won't work as expected. <tt>Redis\Cluster</tt> should remember
  the +MULTI+ command and send it whenever a new server is contacted.
  Contacted servers should be remembered too, in order for +EXEC+ and +DISCARD+
  to work.
- +PUB/SUB+ won't work too.
- etc.

Everything else is supported, even +MGET+ and +MSET+.

== Extension

Someday it might be ported to be a PHP extension, written in C or C++.

== License

php5-redis is distributed under the MIT license.

 Copyright (c) 2010 julien Portalier <ysbaddaden@gmail.com>

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
 obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
 files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
 restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
 copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
 copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
 conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
 included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
 EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
 NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
 HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
 WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
 FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
 OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
